---
layout: post
title:  "IDST 201 Module 3"
date:   2016-10-05 10:45:31 +0530
categories: Assignments
author: "Eric Tomlinson"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<p>In module 3 we learned about markup languages, building websites and databases. 
Each of these are topics I had never dived into before so this module proved to be
very interesting to me as we moved through it.  Throughout the module, I realized how 
important these topics are to not just myself but to everyone. Both web design and databases
are used throughout the world to allow people to access information and data.</p>

<p>From this module, we learned about how WebPages are structured and designed 
through HTML and CSS, as well as learning about a way in which databases are 
structured through Entity Relationship Diagrams. Both of these structures represented 
ways that information is maintained or relayed. Because I had never been exposed to 
information about websites or databases before, all of this was new to me. I learned how
HTML is used with CSS to tell a browser how to build a website through using tags, elements 
and attributes. </p>
<h3>HTML<h3>
<p>In HTML, a tag is what commands the browser how to format a page. These 
tags indicate many things such as paragraphs and heading. These tags create elements, which
consist of a start tag and an end tag with content in between. Attributes provide additional
information about elements and are specified in the start tag. Attributes allow you to add titles, 
images, links and more to your elements. Putting all of these together allow you to give
a Webpage specific instructions about how you want it to be formatted. To change the
ascetics of the page, though, you use CSS.</p>
<h3>CSS<h3>
<p>CSS describes the style of an HTML document
and how each element should be displayed. CSS gives you more control over your
page with less work. CSS allows you to group all of your elements together and change 
them at one time. For example, you could select all paragraph elements and change them
all to the color orange. When it comes to databases there is also a method for formatting 
and arranging them so that finding information requires less work. The method we learned 
about was the Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERD). </p>
<h3>ERD<h3>
<p>In an ERD entities are given attributes 
that they can be identified, including a primary key in which is uniquely associated with
each entity. Through this, you can see how different entities can be linked together to
show their relationships. If used correctly then an ERD will allow you to search a
specific book and through that book see its author and publisher without creating redundancy.</p> 
<h3>Reflection<h3>
<p>Reflecting on these two ways of structuring information, I realize just how 
important they are in my everyday life. Before I knew anything about them, I 
had been using them for years. Since I got to college I have used the Internet 
almost every day to check assignments, email, news and countless other things 
that utilize HTML. Each website has been structured in the background using markup 
languages such as HTML. I learned you could even see this code by right clicking 
a web page and selecting inspect. This allows you to see each of the elements, 
tags and attributes used in the site. While learning about these topics in 201 
I have also been putting them to use in INLS 161 where I have utilized HTML and
CSS to create my own website. By utilizing the information in both classes I have
been able to develop a more rounded understanding of web development basics. My 
experiences with databases are similar in that I have been using them without 
understanding how exactly they work. Throughout college, I have used the library
website numerous times to research projects. By searching for a specific author
or book I am utilizing an extremely refined and polished database retrieval
method such as ERD.</p>

<p>Just as I have been unknowingly utilizing these structures to access information
for years of my life, so have countless others. If I had not taken an INLS class, 
who knows how long I would have gone before I was able to understand databases and
markup languages. While I do not believe understanding these topics are detrimental 
to each individual, I do see the value that it holds. I believe that these skills 
are most important for college students today. As students in college now, we are 
preparing ourselves for the jobs that do not even exist yet and because future jobs
are becoming more reliant on information and technology, being able to understand 
the structures that drive them is an incredible asset. </p>
